[console_scripts]
otpme-accessgroup = otpme.command:otpme_commands
otpme-agent = otpme.command:otpme_commands
otpme-auth = otpme.command:otpme_commands
otpme-ca = otpme.command:otpme_commands
otpme-client = otpme.command:otpme_commands
otpme-cluster = otpme.command:otpme_commands
otpme-controld = otpme.command:otpme_commands
otpme-dictionary = otpme.command:otpme_commands
otpme-get-authorized-keys = otpme.command:otpme_commands
otpme-group = otpme.command:otpme_commands
otpme-host = otpme.command:otpme_commands
otpme-mount = otpme.command:otpme_commands
otpme-node = otpme.command:otpme_commands
otpme-pinentry = otpme.command:otpme_commands
otpme-policy = otpme.command:otpme_commands
otpme-pool = otpme.command:otpme_commands
otpme-realm = otpme.command:otpme_commands
otpme-resolver = otpme.command:otpme_commands
otpme-role = otpme.command:otpme_commands
otpme-script = otpme.command:otpme_commands
otpme-session = otpme.command:otpme_commands
otpme-share = otpme.command:otpme_commands
otpme-site = otpme.command:otpme_commands
otpme-token = otpme.command:otpme_commands
otpme-tool = otpme.command:otpme_commands
otpme-trash = otpme.command:otpme_commands
otpme-unit = otpme.command:otpme_commands
otpme-user = otpme.command:otpme_commands
setreadahead = otpme.lib.setreadahead:main
