# [PySTE](README.md) Change Log

## Release 1.1.1

### Bug fixes
- Fixed bug in which the [NumPy](https://numpy.org/) dependency was not version pinned to >= 1.21, < 3.

### Continuous Integration (CI) updates
- Added CI build support for Python 3.14
- Updated host runner images after GitHub deprecated `macos-13`

### Updated Metadata
- Corrected author names
- Added additional package classifiers
- Added version pins to `README.md`
- Corrected build from source instructions in `README.md`

## Release 1.1.0

- Added `get_evolution()` to generate the unitary describing the systems evolution.
- Added `unitary_gate_infidelity()` to calculate gate infidelities.
- Added `evolved_gate_infidelity()` to calculate the gate infidelity of a unitary generated by a system Hamiltonian.
- Added `gate_switching_function()` to calculate the switching function with respect to the gate infidelity.
- Added `evolved_inner_product()` to calculate the inner product of an evolved state vector with some fixed vector.
- Added `evolved_inner_product_all()` to calculate the inner products of a state vector at each timestep during its evolution with some fixed vector.
- Updated the arXiv reference to:

    Long, C.K., Mayhall, N.J., Economou, S.E. et al. Minimal state-preparation times for silicon spin qubits. npj Quantum Inf 11, 113 (2025). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41534-025-01027-8

## Release 1.0.1

- Wheels are now compiled correctly
- Various hyperlinks in README and documentation have been fixed.

## Release 1.0.0

This is the initial release. Future changes to this release will be documented above.
